                     FEATURE LIST ECOM PLATFORM

Authentication
Login:
Buyers and Admin can log in.
Register:
Registration for buyers .
Description: Users can log in with existing accounts or register as buyers. The login also provides options to login  for Admin .

Homepage
User Login:
Displays navbar, products and categories and essential’s.
Admin Login:
Admin-specific information like transaction, products, customers, offers, and statistics .
Search Bar:
Allows buyers to search for products by name,price,type,ratings,category.
  Description: Users, upon login, will see a homepage featuring products and categories. Administrator have personalized dashboard.
 Product Listing
User:
Filter products by price, type, ratings, and name,category 
Admin:
Different UI for the admin homepage with product management,product management,orders management,customer  management,transaction management and other essential’s.

Shopping Cart
Add to Cart:
Users can add products to their carts.
View Cart Products:
Users can view and manage products in their carts.
Make Changes in Cart:
Users can modify product quantities in the cart.
Remove  Products from Cart:
Users can remove products from their carts.
Payment
Payment Methods:
Cash on delivery and online payment options.
Billing:
Generate bills for shopping records.
X  Product Tracking
Tracking in Shopping Cart:
Flash messages notify users about product status.
Allows users to track the location of their products delivery .
Return Order
Return Option:
Users can initiate returns if they are dissatisfied with the product.
Refund Payment
Refund Process:
Refund initiated when the user returns the order.
Refund amount returned to the user's account.
Status tracking for refunds.
Return criteria: product is the same, in good condition, and within 2 days.

Admin Panel
Security And Access
Admin Login:
Secured login access for administrators.
Product Management
Add, Edit, Delete:
Admin can manage products.
Manage product categories and attributes.
Modify product images,price and other essential’s.
Order Management
View and Manage Orders:
Admin can handle order processing and fulfillment.
Track Order Status:
Track the status of processed and fulfilled orders.
Manage Refunds:
Admin can process and manage refunds.
Customer Management
View Order History:
Admin can view the order history of users and their profiles.
Communication:
Admin can communicate with users via email.
Manage Refunds:
Admin has control over refund management.
Reports
Sales Reports:
Admin can view sales reports for the entire e-commerce store.
Content Management
Manage Content:
Admin can handle the content of products, homepage, and essentials.
Marketing
Discounts and Offers:
Admin can create discounts and offers for special occasions.
Payment And Finance
Transaction Management:
Admin can view and manage transactions.
Manage the payment process.


